**Implementation documentation**

This application is a full-stack web application built with React for
the frontend, Express.js for the backend, GraphQL for the API layer, and
Prisma for database operations with PostgreSQL. The application allows
users to manage products, perform transactions, and handle user-related
functionalities

## **Backend: GraphQL Schemas**

In the backend architecture of this application, two key components play
a crucial role in defining and managing the data: the Prisma Schema and
GraphQL Schemas.

#### **Prisma Schema**

The Prisma schema serves as the blueprint for the underlying database
structure. It meticulously defines the data model, specifying entities
such as User, Product, Rent, Transaction, and ProductView. This schema
not only outlines the types of data each entity can hold but also
establishes relationships between them. These relationships are vital
for representing the intricate connections and dependencies within the
application\'s data model.

For example, a User can be associated with multiple Products, and a
Product may have various associated Transactions or Rents. This schema
acts as a foundation, guiding the database operations and ensuring data
integrity.

#### **GraphQL Schemas**

In conjunction with the Prisma Schema, the application utilizes three
distinct GraphQL schemas---productSchema, transactionSchema, and
userTypes. These schemas are implemented using Apollo Server, a GraphQL
server library. Each schema focuses on a specific domain: product
management, transaction handling, and user-related operations.

-   productSchema: Defines the structure of GraphQL types, queries, and
    > mutations related to product management. It allows clients to
    > interact with the backend to perform actions like creating,
    > editing, and deleting products.

-   transactionSchema: Outlines the GraphQL types and queries specific
    > to transaction operations. It enables users to retrieve
    > information about their sales and purchases, facilitating
    > transparency in transaction history.

-   userTypes: Concentrates on user-related functionalities, providing
    > GraphQL types and mutations for user authentication and
    > registration. It serves as the interface for managing user
    > accounts.

These schemas act as a well-defined contract between the frontend and
backend, ensuring a standardized and efficient communication protocol.
By specifying the types of data that can be requested or manipulated,
GraphQL schemas streamline the development process and enhance the
overall clarity and maintainability of the application.

### **GraphQL Resolvers**

In the backend architecture, GraphQL resolvers play a pivotal role in
executing queries and mutations defined in the GraphQL schemas. They act
as the bridge between the GraphQL API and the underlying data sources,
such as databases. The resolvers for this application are structured to
handle various functionalities, each corresponding to specific
operations within the product, transaction, and user domains.

#### **Product Resolvers**:

-   **getProduct**: Retrieves detailed information about a specific
    > product based on its unique identifier (ID).

    > **getAllProducts**: Fetches a list of all products available in
    > the system, enabling clients to display a comprehensive product
    > catalog.

    > **userProducts**: Retrieves products associated with the
    > authenticated user. This ensures personalized views and actions
    > based on the user\'s inventory.

    > **createProduct, editProduct, deleteProduct**: Manages the
    > lifecycle of a product, allowing users to create, modify, or
    > remove products from the system.

    > **buyProduct**: Handles the purchase of a product, updating
    > relevant data to reflect the transaction and ownership changes.

    > **rentProduct**: Manages the rental process for a product,
    > capturing details such as rental duration and pricing.

    > **viewProduct**: Records views on a product, facilitating user
    > engagement tracking.

#### **Transaction Resolvers**:

-   **mySales**: Retrieves transactions representing sales made by the
    > authenticated user, providing a summary of their selling history.

    > **myPurchases**: Retrieves transactions representing purchases
    > made by the authenticated user, offering insight into their buying
    > activity.

#### **User Resolvers**:

-   **getUser**: Retrieves user information based on their email,
    > allowing for personalized interactions and account management.

    > **signup, login**: Manages user authentication and registration,
    > ensuring secure access to the application.

### **Corner Cases and Considerations:**

-   **Security**:

    -   Resolvers are implemented with security measures, such as
        > authentication checks, to ensure that sensitive operations are
        > performed by authorized users only.

    > **Error Handling**:

    -   Robust error handling is integrated into the resolvers to
        > gracefully manage unexpected scenarios, providing meaningful
        > feedback to clients.

    > **Performance**:

    -   Resolvers are optimized for performance, utilizing efficient
        > database queries and caching mechanisms to reduce response
        > times.

## **Frontend: React.js**

### **Components**

#### 1. **ProductList:**

-   Description: The ProductList component is responsible for rendering
    > a list of products, typically displayed on the home page or
    > relevant product listing pages.

-   Functionality:

    -   Fetches product data from the GraphQL backend using Apollo
        > Client.

    -   Renders each product with essential details like name, price,
        > and a link to view more details.

-   Corner Cases:

    -   Handles scenarios where fetching product data fails, providing
        > users with a friendly error message.

    -   Optimizes rendering for performance, especially when dealing
        > with a large number of products.

#### 2. **ProductDetails:**

-   **Description**: The ProductDetails component is responsible for
    > displaying detailed information about a specific product.

-   **Functionality**:

    -   Retrieves detailed product information from the GraphQL backend
        > using Apollo Client.

    -   Displays information such as name, description, price, and user
        > reviews.

    -   Provides options for users to perform actions like buying,
        > renting, or viewing transactions related to the product.

-   **Corner Cases**:

    -   Manages the case where the requested product is not found or has
        > been deleted, gracefully handling such scenarios.

    -   Ensures that the component efficiently updates when a user
        > interacts with the product (e.g., buying, renting).

#### 3. **TransactionHistory:**

-   **Description**: The TransactionHistory component displays a list of
    > transactions related to the authenticated user.

-   **Functionality**:

    -   Fetches transaction history data from the GraphQL backend using
        > Apollo Client.

    -   Differentiates between sales and purchases, displaying relevant
        > information for each transaction.

    -   Provides a clear view of past interactions with products,
        > including timestamps and transaction types.

-   **Corner Cases**:

    -   Handles cases where transaction data retrieval fails, ensuring a
        > user-friendly experience.

    -   Optimizes the display for scenarios with a large number of
        > transactions.

#### 4. **UpdateProduct:**

-   **Description**: The UpdateProduct component allows users to edit
    > their product information.

-   **Functionality**:

    -   Retrieves the current product details from the GraphQL backend
        > for pre-filling the form.

    -   Presents a form with editable fields for the user to update
        > product information.

    -   Sends a mutation to the backend to update the product upon user
        > submission.

-   **Corner Cases**:

    -   Implements form validation to ensure that only valid and
        > expected data is submitted.

    -   Handles errors gracefully, providing users with feedback on
        > successful updates or encountered issues.

This documentation provides an insight into the GraphQL schemas,
frontend components, and considerations made during the development of
our product transactions application. It serves as a guide for the
engineering team, outlining the structure and functionality of the
system
